Introduce 1.12 release notes and upgrade notes (#10459)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.12.x/announcing-1.12/change-notes/index.md

---

> title: Change Notes

Reviewer: Note that we probably want Release 1.12 in the title. See the images I appended earlier.

Reviewer: I also notice a slight discrepancy, but it's on older releases, that the title says Change Notes and the description says Release Notes.

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.12.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.12.0 release notes.

> publishdate: 2021-11-16

Reviewer: Date here as well.

release: 1.12.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.12.0
---

## Traffic Management

> - **Improved** TCP probes now working as expected: When using TCP probes with older versions of Istio the check was always successful, even if the application didn't open the port.

Reviewer: This seems more like a Fixed TCP probes....

  ([Issue #33558](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33558))

- **Added** support for envoy to track active connections during drain and quit if active connections become zero instead of waiting for entire drain duration. This is disabled by default and can be enabled by setting `EXIT_ON_ZERO_ACTIVE_CONNECTIONS` to true.
  ([Issue #34855](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34855))

- **Added** support for `trafficPolicy.loadBalancer.consistentHash` in `DestinationRule` for proxyless gRPC clients.
  ([Pull Request #35333](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35333))

- **Added** the ability for users to specify Envoy's `LOGICAL_DNS` as a connection type for a cluster using `DNS_ROUND_ROBIN` in ServiceEntry.
  ([Issue #35475](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35475))

- **Added** `failoverPriority` load balancing traffic policy, which allows users to set an ordered list of labels used to sort endpoints to do priority based load balancing.
  ([Pull Request #34740](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/34740))

> - **Added** support for creating mirrored QUIC listeners for non-passthrough HTTPS listeners at gateways

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for creating mirrored QUIC listeners for non-passthrough HTTPS listeners at gateways.
```

  ([Pull Request #33817](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/33817))

- **Added** support for the `v1alpha2` version of the [gateway-api](https://gateway-api.org/).
  ([Pull Request #35009](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35009))

- **Added** experimental support for the `cluster.local` host behavior as defined by the Kubernetes Multi-Cluster Services (MCS) spec. This feature is off by default, but can be enabled by setting the following flags in Istio: `ENABLE_MCS_CLUSTER_LOCAL`, `ENABLE_MCS_HOST` and `ENABLE_MCS_SERVICE_DISCOVERY`. When enabled, requests to the `cluster.local` host will be routed to only those endpoints residing within the same cluster as the client.
  ([Issue #35424](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35424))

- **Fixed** Gateway API xRoute does not forward the traffic to that backend when weight `0`.
  ([Issue #34129](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34129))

- **Fixed** an issue in which ADS would hang due to the wrong `syncCh` size being provided.
  ([Pull Request #34633](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/34633))

> - **Fixed** and issue causing Ingress resources with the same name but different namespaces from conflicting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing Ingress resources with the same name but different namespaces from conflicting.
```

  ([Issue #31833](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31833))

## Security

- **Improved** performance of TLS certificate Secret watches to reduce memory usage.
  ([Issue #35231](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35231))

> - **Added** support to istiod to notice `cacerts` file changes via the `AUTO_RELOAD_PLUGIN_CERTS` env var.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support to istiod to notice `cacerts` file changes via the `AUTO_RELOAD_PLUGIN_CERTS` environment variable.
```

  ([Issue #31522](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/31522))

> - **Added** `VERTIFY_CERT_AT_CLIENT` environmental variable to istiod. Setting `VERTIFY_CERT_AT_CLIENT` to `true` will verify server certificates using the OS CA certificates when not using a `DestinationRule` `caCertificates` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `VERTIFY_CERT_AT_CLIENT` environment variable to istiod. Setting `VERTIFY_CERT_AT_CLIENT` to `true` will verify server certificates using the OS CA certificates when not using a `DestinationRule` `caCertificates` field.
```

  ([Issue #33472](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33472))

> - **Added** Auto mTLS support for workload level peer authentication. You no longer need to configure destination rule when servers are configured with workload level peer authentication policy. This can be disabled by setting `ENABLE_AUTO_MTLS_CHECK_POLICIES` to "false".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** Auto mTLS support for workload level peer authentication. You no longer need to configure a destination rule when servers are configured with workload level peer authentication policy. This can be disabled by setting `ENABLE_AUTO_MTLS_CHECK_POLICIES` to `false`.
```

  ([Issue #33809](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33809))

> - **Added** the support of integrating with GKE workload certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for integration of GKE workload certificates.
```

  ([Pull Request #33914](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/33914))

- **Added** support for JWT claim based routing on ingress gateways.
  ([Pull Request #35762](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35762))

- **Fixed** the `EnvoyExternalAuthorizationHttpProvider` to match HTTP headers in a case-insensitive way.
  ([Issue #35220](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35220))

## Telemetry

- **Fixed** an issue with `WorkloadGroup` and `WorkloadEntry` labeling of canonical revision.
  ([Issue #34395](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34395))

## Extensibility

- **Added** support for Istio `WasmPlugin` API
  ([Pull Request #33374](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/33374))

## Installation

- **Updated** `istioctl tag set default` to control which revision handles Istio resource validation. The revision indicated
through the default tag will also win leader elections and assume singleton cluster responsibilities.
  ([Pull Request #35286](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35286))

- **Added** labels on pod level for istio-operator and istiod.
  ([Issue #33879](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33879))

> - **Added** pilot service annotations on helm chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** pilot service annotations on helm chart.
```

  ([Issue #35229](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35229))

> - **Added** Support arm64 API for operator, add nodeAffinity arm64 expression.

Reviewer: Lower case support, and still not quite correct. Maybe Added support for arm64...

Author: This will likely need rewording...

  ([Pull Request #35648](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35648))

- **Fixed** a bug where specifying same port number with different protocols (TCP and UDP)

> lead to incorrect merging and rendered erroneous manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lead to incorrect merging and rendered an erroneous manifest.
```

  ([Issue #33841](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33841))

> - **Fixed** Istioctl does not wait on CNI DaemonSet update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** istioctl not waiting on CNI DaemonSet update.
```

Also should this be here or in the istioctl section?

  ([Issue #34811](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34811))

> - **Fixed** No Permission to list `ServiceExport` from remote clusters in primary cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** no Permission to list `ServiceExport` from remote clusters in primary cluster.
```

  ([Issue #35068](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35068))

## istioctl

> - **Improved** Analyzers reports output to match the naming scheme expected by the API, i.e `<ns>/<name>` instead of `<name>.<ns>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** analyzers report output to match the naming scheme expected by the API, i.e `<ns>/<name>` instead of `<name>.<ns>`.
```

  ([Issue #35405](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35405))

- **Improved** destination rule ca analyzer to show exact error line when using `istioctl analyze`,
otherwise it will show the first line of its yaml configuration chunk.
  ([Issue #22872](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22872))

- **Updated** `istioctl x create-remote-secret` and `istioctl x remote-clusters` to the top level command, out of
experimental.
  ([Issue #33799](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33799))

- **Added** `istioctl install` will now do `IST0139` analysis on webhooks.
  ([Issue #33537](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33537))

- **Added** `istioctl x remote-clusters` to list the remote clusters each `istiod` instance has API Server credentials for,
and the service registry sync status of each cluster.
  ([Issue #33799](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/33799))

> - **Added** the pod alias `po` for users to use `istioctl x describe po`, which is consistent with `kubectl` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the pod alias `po` for users to use `istioctl x describe po`, which is consistent with the `kubectl` command.
```

  ([Pull Request #34802](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/34802))

- **Added** precheck now detects usage of Alpha Annotations.
  ([Pull Request #35483](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35483))

- **Added** `istioctl operator dump` now supports the `watchedNamespaces` argument to specify the namespaces the operator controller watches.
  ([Issue #35485](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35485))

> - **Fixed** `istioctl operator` subcommands now support remote URLs specified in the `--manifests` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** `istioctl operator` subcommands to now support remote URLs specified in the `--manifests` argument.
```

  ([Issue #34896](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34896))

- **Fixed** `istioctl admin log` format.
  ([Issue #34982](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34982))

- **Fixed** APP pods (such as httpbin) can not be created if not using 'istio-system' as the Istio namespace to install Istio at the first time. And `istioctl install`, `istioctl tag set` and `istioctl tag generate` will be influenced. For example, user can set a specified namespace (`mesh-1` as an example) to install Istio via `istioctl install --set profile=demo --set values.global.istioNamespace=mesh-1 -y`
  ([Issue #35539](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35539))

- **Fixed** `istioctl bug-report` has the extra default system namespaces displayed when `--exclude` is not set.
  ([Issue #35593](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35593))

- **Fixed** the release tar URL by adding the patch version.
  ([Pull Request #35712](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/35712))

- **Fixed** an issue in istioctl bug-report where --context and --kubeconfig were not being honored.
  ([Issue #35574](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/35574))

> ## Documentation changes

Reviewer: Nothing under this header, so can it be removed. Or we should see if there are any changes we want in this space. @craigbox anything to call out?

---
title: Change Notes
linktitle: 1.12.0
subtitle: Minor Release
description: Istio 1.12.0 release notes.
publishdate: 2021-11-16
release: 1.12.0
weight: 10
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.12.0
---

{{< warning >}}
This is an automatically generated rough draft of the release notes and has not yet been reviewed.
{{< /warning >}}

# Release Notes

## Deprecation Notices

These notices describe functionality that will be removed in a future release according to [Istio's deprecation policy](/about/feature-stages/#feature-phase-definitions). Please consider upgrading your environment to remove the deprecated functionality.

## Traffic Management

- **Improved** TCP probes now working as expected: When using TCP probes with older versions of Istio the check was always successful, even if the application didn't open the port.

>   ([details](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/configuration/mesh/app-health-check)) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ([details](/news/releases/1.12.x/announcing-1.12/upgrade-notes/#tcp-probes-now-working-as-expected)) 
```

> - **Improved** support for headless services with undeclared protocols to not required specific `Host` headers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Improved** support for headless services with undeclared protocols to not require specific `Host` headers.
```

  ([Issue #34679](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34679))

> - **Added** validator for empty regex match.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** validator for empty regex match in VirtualSevice, preventing invalid Envoy configuration.
```

  ([Issue #34065](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/34065))

> - **Added** support for `sourceip` hash load balancing in TCP proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for `useSourceIP` [consistent hash load balancing](/docs/reference/config/networking/destination-rule/#LoadBalancerSettings-ConsistentHashLB) for TCP traffic. Previously, only HTTP was supported.
```
